Bender Book (#295)
pulp-platform/bender: book/src/local.md

# Local Configuration (`Bender.local`)

> `Bender.local` is an optional, user-specific configuration file used to override the project's default settings. Its primary purpose is to allow local development of dependencies without modifying the shared `Bender.yml` or `Bender.lock`.

Reviewer: Might make sense to link or merge with configuration.md

## Overriding Dependencies

The most common use for `Bender.local` is the `overrides` section. This forces Bender to use a specific version or a local path for a dependency, regardless of what the manifest requires.

> 

Reviewer: It might be worth mentioning that these overrides are configured the same way dependencies are in the manifest dependencies section (described in dependencies.md afaik)(excluding the target stuff). It is also worth noting that these dependencies will only override existing configurations, not add new dependencies to any package.

  common_cells: { path: "../local_development/common_cells" }
  
  # Force a specific git URL/revision
  axi: { git: "https://github.com/my_fork/axi.git", rev: "experimental_branch" }
```

When an override is present, Bender will prioritize it over any other version resolution.

## Management

`Bender.local` can be managed both manually and automatically. Several Bender commands manage it for you during the development process:

- **[`bender clone`](./workflow/package_dev.md#cloning-dependencies):** Automates moving a dependency to a local working directory and adds a `path` override.
- **[`bender snapshot`](./workflow/package_dev.md#snapshotting):** Updates `Bender.local` with the current Git hashes of your local checkouts.

For a detailed guide on using these commands for multi-package development, see the [Package Development Workflow](./workflow/package_dev.md).

## Other Configurations

`Bender.local` can also be used to configure tool-specific settings:

```yaml
# Change the directory where dependencies are stored (default is .bender)
database: my_deps_cache

# Use a custom git binary or wrapper
git: /usr/local/bin/git-wrapper.sh
```

## Best Practices

> - **Don't Commit It:** `Bender.local` should **rarely** be checked into version control. It contains paths and settings specific to your local machine. Always add it to your `.gitignore`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Don't Commit It:** `Bender.local` should **rarely** be checked into version control. It can contain paths and settings specific to your local machine. Always add it to your `.gitignore`.
```
